.\" Manpage for replace.
.\" Contact spikeysnack@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.ft Helvetica
.TH man 1 "01 Nov 2016" "1.6" "replace man page"

.SH NAME
replace	\- batch rename a list of files 

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBreplace\fP	[-a] [-f] [-n \fI<int>\fP] [-t] [-q] [-v] [match] [replacement] [file list]

		[-h]

		[-u] [-v] [-t]

		[-V]
.SH DESCRIPTION 
.P
.TP
replace renames files. 
.P
It substitutes one string of characters in the file names for another.
.P
replace takes as input a matching string, a replacement string, 
and a list of filenames.
.P
It replaces from one to all occurances of the matching string 
with the replacement string in a given list of file names, 
then renames the matching files accordingly.
.P
It is designed to be flexible yet careful not to destroy files.  
It will not rename files to bad or impossible filenames.
.P 
It implements one level of undo via an undo file. 
The undo-file is created and placed in the user's home directory. 
.P
(default: $HOME/.replace/replace_undo)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a    --all\fP      replace all matches in each filename
.TP
\fB-f    --force\fP    do not ask Y/N before renaming files
.TP    
\fB-h    --help\fR     print this message
.TP
\fB-n \fI<int>\fP   --num \fI<int>\fR     replace up to n matches per filename 
.TP
\fB-t    --test\fP    test mode -- do not actually change filenames 
.TP
\fB-q    --quiet\fP   rename files with no output 
.TP
\fB-u    --undo \fP   reverse the last run of replace 
.TP
\fB-v    --verbose\fP  print out lots of things as they happen 
.TP
\fB-V    --version\fP  print out version 
.SH EXAMPLES
replace  .txt .doc *
.RS
.RS
.TP
change suffix of all txt files to doc 
.RE
.RE
replace  2105  2016 *
.RS
.RS
.TP
fix a typo in filenames 
.RE
.RE
replace  -t -v  -n 2  00 0 *.jpg      
.HP
.RS
.RS
.P
.TP
test only the result(s) of 
.TP
replacing a double-zero with a single one
.TP
with a max of two matches per file, 
.TP for .jpg files.
.TP
002_CONCERT_007002.jpg ==> O2_CONCERT_07002.jpg  
.RE
.RE
.RS
.TP
(hint:  use * for all files in dir) 
.RE
replace -uvf           
.RS
.TP
undo the last rename operation
.TP
print out operations
.TP
do not stop for user input (Y/N)
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
/usr/local/bin/replace
.RI
program binary
.TP
$HOME/.replace/replace_undo
.RI
user undo file (overwritten each run)
.TP
/usr/local/share/man/man1/replace.1 
.RI
man page for replace
.TP
/usr/local/share/doc/replace/
.RI
documentation for replace
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
rename(1)  
.SH BUGS
.P
Edge cases:
.RS
Substitutions may attempt to rename files to names that already exist in the path.
The replace program will abort before any files are destroyed or overwritten. 
This could lead to a situation wherein some files are renamed, and some are not.
.P
Multiple sequential runs of the undo function are not reflexive.
To redo after an undo you must re-run replace with the original parameters.
.P
The undo file is updated for each successful rename, but only for the last complete run. 
It is recommended to use the -t test flag before any complicated operation.
That way you may judge the results before executing a batch rename command.
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
.RS
Chris Reid (spikeysnack@gmail.com)
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
.RS
Free for non-commercial use.
.RE
